---
layout: post
title: "To Exist Is To Resist"
image: null
image-credit: TODO
location: The Middle East
links:
- https://twitter.com/example
- https://gofundme.com/whatever
tags:
- Palestine
- Culture
---
I came here with the naïve ignorance that I had creative, original ideas that would become a useful contribution to generating awareness of the lives of Palestinians for people living outside of Palestine. It is true that our media reports only on tragedy and statistics, and that opinion editorials were overwhelmingly representative of Israeli point of view. However, ‘creative’, and more specifically ‘original’ ideas about how to present information is the clear illustration of my own ignorance.
‘To Exist is to Resist’ meant to me that people here were just existing. How wrong could I be? Existing in Palestine means joy, play, creation, education, community, and liberation. Yes, this means playing soccer while choking back tear gas. It means a restriction on movement between Palestinian cities and villages which separates families, communities, and economies. It means acts of resistance both passive and sometimes violent (which, btw, is sanctioned within International Human Rights Law – this alone is something we will write about in more detail later). Each act, whether the mundane routine of daily life to political activism is resistance because existing in all these forms is exactly what the occupier is trying to prevent. There isn’t even an attempt at assimilation on their behalf (not that that would be any better!).  The ultimate goal of the occupier is a population majority in the territory and a state under the banner of their religion that is also somehow democratic (Selective democracy? Again, another topic for another time)
This presents two problems with my original goal. The first is the idea of somehow presenting the information with ‘neutrality’. While presenting the bare facts of this occupation (purposely not using the term ‘conflict’) can be done so completely objectively, the absurdity of this situation creates an idea that somehow it is not objective. What Palestinians say is not an exaggeration, many Israelis agree. Some political Zionists are clear in their denunciation of the occupation. They diverge from other important aspects of the current state in that they deny the right of return of the over 7 million Palestinian refugees both scattered across the world and segregated within the borders of the country (Also, this ‘Right of Return’ is sanctioned within international law and UN Resolution 194). They argue unashamedly that this is not possible because it defeats the purpose of maintaining a Jewish majority for a democratic Jewish state. I need to clarify, because any mention of the word ‘Jewish’ is responded to with ‘anti-Semitist’, which I am not. Judaism and Zionism are two very different things; by interweaving these two terms, Zionists have successfully created a stop-point to any discussion of their actions. Similarly, the successful narrative that somehow weaves the story of the holocaust (actually only half of the holocaust, because of the 12million that lost their lives to Nazi Germany, only half were Jewish) with their Zionist project. Although the holocaust did not happen here in Palestine, nor were Palestinians involved in this genocide, by assimilating the holocaust narrative into the justification for the occupation, there again presents a termination to any criticism of their actions. Genocide is tragic. White genocide is unimaginable and our Western States will carry the guilt of their incompetence for this for generations. 
I digress.
Neutrality. 
Dr. Ramzy Baroud took the time to speak with me before my departure. He is a well-known Palestinian writer, journalist, and activist (if you exist as a Palestinian, you are by default, an activist). What he told me made sense in theory before I left, but I now understand at a visceral level that it is impossible to present in any way the lives of Palestinians without the correlation to the occupation. Im-poss-i-ble. In fact, my time here is impossible to describe without connecting my day to day activities with the occupation. So, in that regard, I must re-shape my thinking.
The second, and what I think is most important problem with my original idea, is that I would somehow be able to create something new. My anti-oppressive trained half of my brain is laughing at my newly unearthed sense of privilege/entitlement/paternalism. Like, I should know better than that. It is good. I can only learn through experience. Living in the Western bubble has only given me so much opportunity for critical self-examination. I am growing. Here, in this beautiful country, and possibly in part due to the struggle, blooms ingenuity, creativity, innovation, and mastery. I am in awe and so very humbled. What I thought I could do differently has been done better, more authentically, and more compelling than all my best efforts, and then some.
Our original idea was to create a website, in the likeness of HONY, to showcase Palestinian life ‘outside of the conflict narrative’. This website has been done. Separating the conflict is impossible. So then what? Perhaps all is not lost. Maybe my purpose is not to be a creator, but a vehicle for sharing the creation that already exists here. Maybe ‘The People of Palestine’ will serve more like a collection of collections. An amalgamation of the work that has already been done, or is being done within the communities that we have visited. That we have had the PRIVILEGE to be welcomed into. Maybe I am wrong again, and that’s ok. I am open to learning, and I am committed to being useful however that looks. And here sometimes that looks like yelling from the rooftops, and sometimes it looks like mixing cement. If my purpose is to mix cement and that is useful, then so be it. 
